GeoNet Problem
==============
IP routing and addressing are completely unaware of geography
parameters.  Mechanisms and IETF protocols are needed for authorized
source nodes anywhere in the Internet to disseminate packets to other
nodes in areas described by geographical parameters, all while
respecting privacy concerns of sender and receiver; parameters such as
geographical coordinates and other geo-locators such as civic
addresses should be used.


GeoNet Challenges and Open Issues
=================================
o) Mechanisms and protocol solutions at network layer are needed for
   the accurate representation of geographic areas using (1)
   geo-locators such as names and (2) geographic physical coordinates.

o) Mechanisms and protocol solutions at network layer are needed to
   ensure that geographical area information (e.g. geo-locators,
   names, geographic physical coordinates) is accurately mapped to an
   IP locator, i.e. an IP address. Mapping data bases can be
   maintained at the source nodes, intermediate or edge nodes, and at
   specific IP locator nodes.

o) Mechanisms and protocol solutions at network layer are needed to
   ensure that an IP locator, i.e. an IP address, can be accurately
   mapped to a geographic area information (geo-locators, names, and
   geographic physical coordinates).  Mapping data bases can be
   maintained at the source nodes, intermediate or edge nodes, and at
   specific IP locator nodes.

o) Mechanisms and protocol solutions at network layer solutions are
   needed to ensure that data packets generated by source nodes placed
   arbitrarily in the Internet can be forwarded over multiple hops by
   using, where possible, geographic physical coordinates of (1) the
   destination node(s) and/or (2) the intermediate nodes for the
   routing decisions, instead of using their IP addresses.  (Note that
   in order to solve the above challenge it is NOT mandated that all
   nodes located on the path from source to destination nodes are able
   to forward packets using the geo-coordinates of (1) the destination
   node(s) and/or (2) the intermediate nodes for the routing
   decisions. This is emphasized by using the words "where possible".)


GeoNet Requirements
===================
The specified mechanisms and protocol solutions:

o) SHOULD ideally support IPv4 and IPv6

o) MUST at a minimum support IPv6

o) MUST be able to use and insert geographic area information at the
   network layer.

o) MUST be able to disseminate the information from senders to the
   destination nodes located in the destination geographic area in a
   point to multipoint manner.

o) SHOULD be able to scale, leverage on stable and deterministic
   underlayers when available, and maintain its performance and
   precision to acceptable levels even if it is applied in contexts of:
   (1) global coverage with small destination geographic areas, (2)
   large traffic volumes, large flows, (3) large number of
   simultaneously active sources.

o) MUST be able to provide accurate representation of geographic areas
   using (1) geo-locators and names and/or (2) geographic physical
   coordinates.

o) MUST be able to ensure that geographical area information
   (geo-locators, names and geographic physical coordinates) is
   accurately mapped to an IP locator, i.e. an IP address, even if the
   relation between geographical area information and IP locator is
   not a one-to-one relationship.

o) MUST be able to ensure that an IP locator, i.e. an IP address, can
   be accurately mapped to a geographic area information
   (geo-locators, names and geographic physical coordinates), even if
   the relation between locator and geographical information is not a
   one-to-one relationship.

o) MUST be able to ensure that the used mapping data bases of IP
   locators to a geographic area information are up to date.

o) MUST support security and privacy: Given the sensitivity of
   location data and the possibility of the technology being used in
   emergency and/or road traffic management scenarios a particular
   attention must be paid to security and privacy.  A thorough threat
   analysis should be conducted, and mitigations specified; this
   applies to any protocol documents in this context, for any
   communication modes. Security objectives particularly include
   integrity, privacy and non-repudiation and SHOULD protect the
   network and transport layer protocol headers.  In addition any
   potential Internet-wide geo-networking solution MUST also protect
   privacy, i.e. provide confidentiality to personal data such as
   relation between identifier and location.

o) SHOULD support timely and guaranteed delivery of information.


GeoNet Assumptions
==================
o) The mechanisms and protocol solutions SHOULD be able to use and
   insert geographic area information at the network layer.

o) The destination nodes can be static or moving entities, such as
   hosts, vehicles, sensors and actuators, goods, that are spread in a
   certain target/destination geographic area.

o) existing IETF mechanism and protocols like LISP, geopriv, ecrit and
   reverse 911 will be taken into consideration during the design
   phase

o) The document "ISO 19107: Spatial Schema" will be considered for the
   representation of spatial characteristics of geographic features
   (including geometries), and a set of spatial operations consistent
   with these schemas.  This document treats of vector geometry and
   topology of up to three dimensions.  Geometries range from point,
   multipoint, to polygon, to Bezier curves and to Clothoids.

o) The documents of the group IEEE P1609.2 may be considered for
   security and privacy support on IEEE 802.11p links.

GeoNet Use Cases (order non significant)
========================================
o) Dissemination to a particular area

In this use case a source node, which may be located anywhere, sends
packets to a wireless access router through the Internet.  Those
wireless access routers are selected based on geographical location
information, and traffic is routed to them using the IPv6 address of
the router and conventional IP routing.  Each of the destination
access routers then copies and broadcasts the received packets to
listeners within its radio coverage area.

o) Goods Tracking

A good delivered by a shipping organization has an IP address.  This
good is 'tracked' in that its geographical position is known to
end-users continuously throughout the entire delivery process.  The IP
address of the good is associated to the geographical coordinates of
the router to which it connects.  Using IP addresses allows for a very
fine grained and precision of tracking.

In more detail, the IP address of the good could be an opaque address,
and should not be a Provider-Assigned (PA) IP address.  The
intermediary routers are configured with their own geographical
coordinates.  When the tracked good shows up at a router, the IP
address of the former gets associated with the geographical
coordinates of the latter.  This information is further put in various
types of databases which are then queried remotely to realize
'tracking'.

An overlay technology is used where shipping packages are assigned IP
addresses; they are conceptually used as end-point identifiers
independent of the attachment point to the network; devices in the
network can be configured with geographical coordinates that bind to
the end-point identifier.  The network devices can allow tracking of
the package.  The tracking can be very granular depending on the
number of network devices that participate.

o) Vehicular Traffic Safety, Efficiency, Management and Infotainment

A source node, which may be located anywhere, sends traffic safety,
traffic efficiency and management, and infotainment type of vehicular
information to Road Side Units (RSUs) through the Internet.

Those RSUs are preselected based on the geographical location
information of the destination geographic area. The vehicular data
traffic is routed to a RSU using its IPv6 address.

Each of the RSUs use the standardized ETSI ITS Geo-networking protocol
to disseminate the vehicular information to any of: (1) one vehicle,
(2) a predefined set of vehicles or (3) to all vehicles which are
located within the destination geographic area.  Traffic safety
applications are those that are primarily applied to decrease the
probability of traffic accidents and the loss of life of the occupants
of vehicles.  Traffic efficiency and management applications are
focusing on improving the vehicle traffic flow, traffic coordination
and traffic assistance.  Infotainment types of applications are the
applications that are neither traffic safety applications, nor traffic
efficiency, nor management applications.  Such applications are needed
for uses like multimedia downloading for passengers.

o) Mobile RSU

Typically a Road Side Unit (RSU) is placed somewhere alongside a road
for vehicles; an RSU gets a static geographical location which will
most likely not be changed until the device either reaches its end of
life or is no longer needed at that location; at that time it would be
"torn down" (other cases may apply).  A so called 'Mobile Roadside
Unit' on the other hand is portable, not torn down while moving,
meaning that among other settings, it's geographical position adjusts
according to the location where it is positioned.  Such a 'Mobile
Roadside Unit' is very usable in multiple situations, for example when
a permanently installed unit fails and needs a temporarily backup
unit, or during road works.  In that case when at some location along
a road there is ongoing road works, an operator could take a 'Mobile
Roadside Unit', position it on her car somewhere at the road works
site and start sending Road Works Warning messages with detail
information.  Furthermore, in some cases the geographical position of
it could change if the Road Works are slowly moving.

Additionally, whereas data traffic could be forwarded along Mobile
RSUs in a multi-hop manner, less congested paths use the fixed edge
geonet-enabled routers of the Internet (off-loading).

o) Identification of Originating Area (network operator, CDN)

In some IP network deployments in large cities, an Internet Service
Provider (ISP) or an Internet Content Provider (ICP) needs to identify
which parts of the city originates most part of IP traffic.  This is
very important for ISP/ICP.  When the ISP/ICP know the geographic
information of an IP address, it can deduce the origin of the IP
traffic and thus it can schedule its own resource among the whole
network to realize the best service for the Internet users.  For
example, a relatively large city usually has a CBD (Central Business
District) and many dwelling (residential) districts.  In CBD, people
are inclined to browse news, download file and so on.  In dwelling
districts, people are inclined to watch network video, download files
and do other fun communications.  So the IP traffic issued from users
in CBD is different from traffic issued in dwelling districts and the
ICP/ISP must provide differentiated services.  To achieve that, the
key is to get the geographic information of every IP packet.  Once the
ISP/ICP gets the geographic information, it can know the detailed user
activities in every geographical area.  For example, it could assign
more application servers and bandwidth to the heavy traffic area to
relieve the backbone network pressure; or it could place the most
popular program to the appropriate area. It is thus very useful to get
the geographic information of IP traffic for the network traffic
optimizations and towards better network deployment.

Following the reasoning above, many ISP/ICP have collected the
geographic information of IP address for years and have formed the
corresponding IP-location database.  But this enterprise self-built
IP-location database is not very accurate; besides, bilateral privacy
concerns may some times represent risks.  It is thus necessary to get
accurate geographic information by some reasonable ways.

o Gelocation of Instrumented Ambulance

An ambulance has a casualty; the primary objective is to get the
medical data (e.g. vital signs) securely delivered to the hospital, by
telemetry through the Internet, to allow the ER doctor to 'look over
the shoulder' of the EMT in the ambulance.  Additionally, during this
process, the communication between the ambulance driver and the
dispatcher, and the communication afforded by the ambulance hotspot to
public authorities (Bring-Your-Own-Device,
Bring-Your-Own-Communication), is critically qualified by geographical
coordinates and geo-locators such as civic addresses.  This case
should be further described, because some of these functions are much
provided over radio by dispatchers and by GPS trackers.

Differences between GeoNet and othet IETF working groups
========================================================
Text needs to be written that emphasizes what are the main differences
between GeoNet and at least (1) ecrit, (2) LISP and (3) geopriv.

Advocacy could be written once identification of the compelling
use-case is done.

